Data Mining

    -Data mining is a process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and database systems
    -Data mining is a process used by companies to turn raw data into useful information. By using software to
     look for patterns in large batches of data, businesses can learn more about their customers to develop 
     more effective marketing strategies, increase sales and decrease costs

Image Processing

    -Digital image processing is the use of a digital computer to process digital images through an algorithm. 
    As a subcategory or field of digital signal processing, digital image processing has many advantages over analog image processing.
    -Image processing is a method to perform some operations on an image, in order to get an enhanced image or 
    to extract some useful information from it. It is a type of signal processing in which input is an image and output may be image
    or characteristics/features associated with that image. Nowadays, image processing is among rapidly growing technologies. It 
    forms core research area within engineering and computer science disciplines too.

Cloud Computing

    -Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage (cloud storage) 
    and computing power, without direct active management by the user.[1] The term is generally used to describe data centers 
    available to many users over the Internet.[2] Large clouds, predominant today, often have functions distributed over multiple 
    locations from central servers. If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an edge server.

Soft Computing

    -Soft computing is the use of approximate calculations to provide imprecise but usable solutions to complex computational 
    problems. The approach enables solutions for problems that may be either unsolvable or just too time-consuming to solve with current hardware.


NLP
    -Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the 
    interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of
    natural language data.

Fuzzy logic

    -Fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on "degrees of truth" rather than the usual "true or false" (1 or 0) Boolean 
    logic on which the modern computer is based. The idea of fuzzy logic was first advanced by Dr. Lotfi Zadeh of the University 
    of California at Berkeley in the 1960s.
    -In fuzzy mathematics, fuzzy logic is a form of many-valued logic in which the truth values of variables may be any real number
     between 0 and 1 both inclusive. It is employed to handle the concept of partial truth, where the truth value may range between 
      true and completely false.[1] By contrast, in Boolean logic, the truth values of variables may only be the integer values 0 or 1.

IOT
    -The Internet of things (IoT) describes the network of physical objects—“things”—that are embedded with sensors, software, and other 
    technologies for the purpose of connecting and exchanging data with other devices and systems over the Internet.

BlockChain
    -A blockchain,[1][2][3] originally block chain,[4][5] is a growing list of records, called blocks, that are linked using cryptography.
    [1][6] Each block contains a cryptographic hash of the previous block,[6] a timestamp, and transaction data (generally represented as a Merkle tree).

cryptography
    -The conversion of data into a secret code for transmission over a public network. Today, most cryptography is digital, and the original text ("plaintext") 
    is turned into a coded equivalent called "ciphertext" via an encryption algorithm. The ciphertext is decrypted at the receiving end and turned back into plaintext.

Distributed Computing
    -Distributed computing is a model in which components of a software system are shared among multiple computers. Even though
     the components are spread out across multiple computers, they are run as one system. This is done in order to improve efficiency
     and performance. 

Computational learning theory
    -In computer science, computational learning theory (or just learning theory) is a subfield 
    of artificial intelligence devoted to studying the design and analysis of machine learning algorithms.[1]
    -Theoretical results in machine learning mainly deal with a type of inductive learning called supervised learning. 
    In supervised learning, an algorithm is given samples that are labeled in some useful way. For example, the samples
    might be descriptions of mushrooms, and the labels could be whether or not the mushrooms are edible. The algorithm 
    takes these previously labeled samples and uses them to induce a classifier. This classifier is a function that assigns
    labels to samples, including samples that have not been seen previously by the algorithm. The goal of the supervised
    learning algorithm is to optimize some measure of performance such as minimizing the number of mistakes made on new samples.

Big data
    -Big data is a field that treats ways to analyze, systematically extract information from, or 
    otherwise deal with data sets that are too large or complex to be dealt with by traditional data-processing 
    application software. Data with many cases (rows) offer greater statistical power, while data 
    with higher complexity (more attributes or columns) may lead to a higher false discovery rate.[2] 
    Big data challenges include capturing data, data storage, data analysis, search, sharing,
     transfer, visualization, querying, updating, information privacy and data source. Big data
      was originally associated with three key concepts: volume, variety, and velocity. When we 
      handle big data, we may not sample but simply observe and track what happens. Therefore, big data often 
      includes data with sizes that exceed the capacity of traditional software to process within an acceptable 
      time and value.
    
Neural Networks
    -Neural networks are a series of algorithms that mimic the operations of a human
     brain to recognize relationships between vast amounts of data.
     -They are used in a variety of applications in financial services, 
     from forecasting and marketing research to fraud detection and risk assessment.
    -An ANN is based on a collection of connected units or nodes called artificial 
    neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain. Each connection, 
    like the synapses in a biological brain, can transmit a signal to other neurons. 
    An artificial neuron that receives a signal then processes it and can signal neurons
    connected to it. The "signal" at a connection is a real number, and the output 
    each neuron is computed by some non-linear function of the sum of its inputs. 
    The connections are called edges. Neurons and edges typically have a weight that
    adjusts as learning proceeds. The weight increases or decreases the strength of 
    the signal at a connection. Neurons may have a threshold such that a signal is sent 
    only if the aggregate signal crosses that threshold. Typically, neurons are aggregated
    into layers. Different layers may perform different transformations on their inputs. 
    Signals travel from the first layer (the input layer), to the last layer (the output layer),
    possibly after traversing the layers multiple times.


Graph theory 
    -In computer science, graphs are used to represent networks of 
    communication, data organization, computational devices, the flow of computation, 
    etc. For instance, the link structure of a website can be represented by a directed graph,
    in which the vertices represent web pages and directed edges represent links from one page
    to another. A similar approach can be taken to problems in social media,[9] travel, biology,
    computer chip design, mapping the progression of neuro-degenerative diseases,[10][11] and 
    many other fields. The development of algorithms to handle graphs is therefore of major interest
    in computer science. The transformation of graphs is often formalized and
    represented by graph rewrite systems. Complementary to graph transformation systems 
    focusing on rule-based in-memory manipulation of graphs are graph databases geared towards 
    transaction-safe, persistent storing and querying of graph-structured data.

Number theory
    -Number theory (or arithmetic or higher arithmetic in older usage) is a branch of
     pure mathematics devoted primarily to the study of the integers and integer-valued functions. 
     German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855) said, "Mathematics is the queen of the 
     sciences—and number theory is the queen of mathematics."[1] Number theorists study prime numbers as 
     well as the properties of mathematical objects made out of integers 
     (for example, rational numbers) or defined as generalizations of the integers (for example, algebraic integers).
    
Software Development
    -Software development is the process of conceiving, specifying, designing, programming,
    documenting, testing, and bug fixing involved in creating and maintaining applications, 
    frameworks, or other software components.

Web Development
    -Web development is the work involved in developing a Web site for the Internet (World Wide Web)
    or an intranet (a private network).[1] Web development can range from developing a simple single
    static page of plain text to complex Web-based Internet applications (Web apps), electronic businesses,
    and social network services. A more comprehensive list of tasks to which Web development commonly 
    refers, may include Web engineering, Web design, Web content development, client liaison, client-side/server-side
    scripting, Web server and network security configuration, and e-commerce development.

Compiler Design/Organisation
    - Design and make compilers

Operating Systems
    -The operating system domain contains units that represent operating systems, users, user groups, 
    file systems, folders, and files in topologies. The domain includes units for a generic operating 
    system and units for specific types of operating systems.
    -Operating system units have membership links to users, user groups, and file systems; file systems can 
    have membership links to one or more files and directories.

Data Compression
    -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_compression


