Predicate logic is an extension of
propositional logic that permits concisely
reasoning about whole classes of entities.


functions return whatever they want

predicates return true/false


Quantifiers allow us to quantify (count) how many
objects in the universe of discourse satisfy a given
predicate:


The part of a logical expression to which a
quantifier is applied is called the scope of
this quantifier.


Resolution is a valid inference rule producing a new
clause implied by two clauses containing
complementary literals


Amazingly, this is the only interference rule you
need to build a sound theorem prover


Proof by Contradiction using resolution
Steps:
1. Convert the hypotheses to clauses
2. Convert the conclusion to clause form;
3. Assume the NEGATION of the conclusion is T.
4. Take the first parent clause to be Neg(Conclusion) and another
parent clause.
5. Resolve the parent clauses and get the resolvent
6. Continue this process until we get an empty resolvent. Then a
contradiction has been found. If and when we find a
contradiction, we have proved the clause.


• If a contradiction exists, it will eventually be found.
• If no contradiction exists, it is possible that the procedure will
never terminate.
• In Predicate logic, the situation is more complicated since we
must consider all possible ways of substituting values for the
variables.


A FOL expression Φ can be put in prenex normal form
by moving the quantifiers to the prefix. The quantifier free
part of Φ is called the matrix of Φ


Working Rule to tranform a formula into Prenex Normal Form

1. Eliminate → and ↔ (transform to ∨, ^, ¬)
2. Push negations inside using Involution,
DeMorgan’s and the laws
a) ~ (Vx p(x)) ⇔ Ex(~ p(x))
b) ~ (Ex p(x)) ⇔ Vx(~ p(x))
3. If there are name conflicts across scopes, solve
with renaming.
4. Use the equivalence laws (1 to 8) to move the
quantifiers to the left of the entire formula to
ultimately obtain in Prenex Normal Form


Skolem Normal Form

• Skolemization: procedure for systematic elimination of the
existential quantifiers in a first-order formula in a prenex form,
by introducing new constant and functional symbols, called
Skolem constants and Skolem functions, in the formula and the
matrix should be in CNF.

• Rule 1: Check that no universal quantifier appear before Qr
(Qr is an existential quantifier). Then choose a new constant
different from other constants occurring in F and replace all xr
appearing in the F by the constant

Rule 2: If for existential quantifier Qr 
(the quantifiers Qs1 Qs2 Qs3 .. Qsm are all universal quantifiers appearing before Qr ),
then we choose a function f, different from other function
symbols occurring in F and replace all xr in F by the function 
f(xs1,xs2,...xsm) and delete Qrxr from the prefix

Skolem provided a technique to convert a
FOL sentence F into F’ in prenex normal
form with universal quantifiers such that F
is satisfiable iff F’ is satisfiable


FOL with resolution is refutation complete,
i.e. if S is a set of unsatisfiable clauses,
then a contradiction arises after a finite
number of resolutions.


Unification: The process of finding all legal substitutions that make
logical expressions look identical

Procedure to Resolution theorem proving

1. Convert Hypothesis to Clause form
– 2. Convert conclusion to clause form
– 3. Start with Neg(Conclusion) as parent1 and choose
parent2
– 4. Resolve using unification; If an empty resolvent is
found, then return success.
– 5. If not possible return failure.
– 6. Use the resolvent as a parent and continue the
process.