Caretesian Product: The Cartesian product of A and B is denoted by AB
and equals {(a, b): aEA and bEB}. The elements of AB are
ordered pairs. The elements of A1xA2x...xAn are ordered n-
tuples.

Binary Sets: Let A and B be sets. A binary relation from A to
B is a subset of AxB.


Number of subsets for a set A of size m is 2^m

Number of relations for a set A of size m is 2^(m^2)

There are 2^n(n-1) Reflexive relations

Number of functions is range^domain

Number of one one functions is range P domain


A relation R on a set A is called reflexive if
(a, a)ER for every element aEA.

•A relation on a set A is called
irreflexive if (a, a)ER for every element aEA.

•A relation R on a set A is called symmetric if (b, a)ER
whenever (a, b)ER for all a, bEA.

•A relation R on a set A is called antisymmetric if
a = b whenever (a, b)ER and (b, a)ER.

•A relation R on a set A is called asymmetric if
(a, b)ER implies that (b, a)ER for all a, bEA.


A relation R on a set A is called transitive if
whenever (a, b)ER and (b, c)ER, then (a, c)ER for a, b,
cEA.


Inverse Relation: Let R be a relation from a set A to a set B. The inverse relation from B to A,
denoted by R^-1 , is the set of ordered pairs { (b,a) : (a,b) E R }

Complimentary Relation : RC is the set of ordered pairs { (a,b) : (a,b) ∉ R}


Relation operatoins

- Union
- Intersection
- Difference: There in set 1 not in 2
- Symmetric Difference: differemce of union and Intersection (symbol: triangle)
- Composite: Let R be a relation from a set A to a set B and S a relation from B to a set C. The composite of R and S is the
             relation consisting of ordered pairs (a, c), where aEA, cEC, and for which there exists an element bEB such that (a, b)ER and
             (b, c)ES. We denote the composite of R and S by S*R.
- Transitive: ThA relation R on a set A is called transitive if
whenever (a, b)ER and (b, c)ER, then (a, c)ER for a, b, cEA.


•To obtain the join of two zero-one matrices, we apply the
Boolean “or” function to all corresponding elements in the
matrices.

•To obtain the meet of two zero-one matrices, we apply the
Boolean “and” function to all corresponding elements in the
matrices.

Then the Boolean product of A and B, denoted by
AoB, is the mn matrix with (i, j)th entry [cij], where
cij = (ai1 ^ b1j) v (ai2 ^ b2i) v ... v (aik ^ bkj).


Boolean Product of 2 matrices gives Composite


• The reflexive closure of R can be formed by adding all of the
pairs of the form (a,a) to R.
Should add all the main diagonal matrix

Should add the Inverse to make it symmetric

Transitive Clousure: If there is a path from a to b, then there
should be an edge from a to b in the transitive closure

The transitive closure of R is the
connectivity relation R*.

Conditions for inverse to exist
- One one function
- Onto funtion

The domain of inverse is range of the function

The graph of an inverse function can be found by
reflecting a function in the line y=x.


A relation on a set A is called an equivalence
relation if it is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive.


Let R be an equivalence relation on a set A.
The set of all elements that are related to an element a of
A is called the equivalence class of a.


When only one relation is under consideration, we will
delete the subscript R and write [a] for this equivalence
class.


A partition of a set S is a collection of disjoint nonempty
subsets of S that have S as their union. In other words, the collection
of subsets Ai, iEI, forms a partition of S if and only if

• Ai != phi for iEI
•Ai intersection Aj = phi, if i != j
• union all Ai = S

Let R be an equivalence relation on a
set S. Then the equivalence classes of R form a partition of S.


A relation R on a set S is called partial ordering or
partial order if it is reflexive, antisymmetric, and
transitive


The elements a and b of a poset (S, ≼) are
called comparable if either a≼b or b≼a. When
a and b are elements of S s.t. neither a≼b nor
b≼a, a and b are incomparable


When every 2 elements in the set are comparable,
the relation is called total ordering


A Hasse diagram is a drawing that represents a partial
order relation.


Draw a diagram in which
– a ≼ b is represented by a -> b; a is drawn below b.
– Draw the digraph for the partial order
– Remove the loops as reflexive property is implied
– If there exists c such that a ≼ c and c ≼ b, then we
represent only a <= c and c ≼ b; a ≼ b is implied by
transitivity. Remove the transitive edges.
– Remove the direction arrows. It is from bottom to top.
– The resulting diagram is the Hasse Diagram


A lattice is a partially ordered set in
which every pair of elements has both
– a least upper bound and
– a greatest lower bound


Topological Sorting: Algorithm

Input: (S, p) a poset with |S|=n
Output: A total ordering (a1, a2 ,..., an)
1. k  1
2. While S Do
3. ak  a minimal element in S
4. S  S \ {ak}
5. k  k+1
6. End
7. Return (a1 , a2 , ..., an)


